# Version 3.1.2

## New Features
* >>> Translation of symbols from Money to Yahoo format.
* >>> Support for Portfolio status bar symbols. 
* Summary log messages now include a count of *warnings*.

# Version 3.1.1

## Changes
* The quote type - `EQUITY`, `BOND`, `MUTUALFUND` or `INDEX` - must now be specified as a part of the filename for quotes updated from a CSV file. 

## Bug Fixes
* Indices quoted in GBP were getting the currency divisor applied. This shouldn't have been the case - fixed. 
* Fix CSV filename parsing and generation of quote date.

# Version 3.1.0

## New Features
* Historical quote data for a single investment can now be updated from the Yahoo API as well a from a CSV file.

## Changes
* The quote currency must now be specified as a part of the filename for quotes updated from a CSV file.
* Output summary log messages after Yahoo quote data processing.
* For the auto-complete source type, add an exchange suffix to 12-character symbols that don't have one.

# Version 3.0.0

## New Features
* Auto-complete of Yahoo Finance stock quote API URL with investment and FX symbols automatically generated from MS Money file.

## Changes
* Add update for 'Online price update' time-stamp in Portfolio.
* Update log4j-core to 2.13.1.
* Update jackson-databind to 2.10.3.

# Version 2.0.5

## Changes
* Add version log message.

# Version 2.0.4

## Changes
* Update log4j-core library to 2.12.1.
* Update jackson-databind library to 2.10.1.

# Version 2.0.3-beta

## Changes
* Update jackcess library to 3.0.1.
* Update jackson-databind library to 2.9.9.
* Upgrade log4j-core library to 2.11.2. 

# Version 2.0.2-beta

## Changes
* Update Jackcess library to 2.2.2.

## Bug Fixes
* Fix bug causing multiple additions of quotes with the same date.

# Version 2.0.1-beta

## Changes
* Update Jackson library to 2.9.8.
* Update Jackcess library to 2.2.1.

## Bug Fixes
* Fix GBP mutual find price calculation.

# Version 2.0.0-beta

## New Features
* Historical quotes can now be imported directly from CSV files generated by the Yahoo Finance historical prices download facility.

## Changes
* Add handling for maximum Money symbol length of 12 characters.
* Speed optimisations for adding new quotes (as opposed to updating existing quotes) and finding previous quotes.

# Version 1.0.2-beta

## Changes
* Update 52-week high/low data for mutual funds.

## Bug Fixes
* Fix dividend yield calculation for non-GBP quotes.

# Version 1.0.1-beta

## New Features
* Add elapsed time log message.

## Bug Fixes
* Fix edge case handling of SP table updates, eg. no HSEC in SP table for quote; previous quote is a buy.
* Fix handling for quote type MUTUALFUND.

# Version 1.0.0-beta
* First release.